Introduction: 

<insert intro here> 
What are the economics of Blockchain?  How much does it really cost and what are the cost benefits?  This economic study will 
explore the financial and other aspects of implementing Blockchain at Agencies and Companies.

   - Blockchain-based payment systems could potentially provide a more efficient, faster, and cheaper alternative to existing 
     electronic payment methods.  In these models, traditional intermediaries are removed, counterparty risk is reduced, and 
     interchange fees are eliminated.  Moreover, the blockchain could facilitate an online payments mechanism for small businesses 
     that cannot afford more expensive payments networks.  Blockchain-based payment systems may also facilitate micro-payments, 
     allowing businesses to monetize very low-cost goods or services sold on the internet that currently cannot be sold at an 
     appropriately low per/unit cost, given traditional payments systems’ higher transaction costs.  Furthermore, blockchain-based 
     remittance platforms, though at an early stage, could facilitate lower-cost remittances for financially excluded populations. 
   - Blockchain technology propose to improve the way financial assets are intermediated by large, complex, wholesale financial 
     institutions.  Wholesale intermediation typically begins with soliciting, negotiating, and accepting customer requests for a 
     wide array of financial transactions, which are then recorded, executed and risk-managed.  Intermediation is a long chain of 
     steps that include certain new, statutorily-mandated and critically important activities, like clearing and disclosing of 
     transactions and risks.  This front-to-back process or chain of activities is controlled by a set of reconciled subledgers that 
     together constitute the firms’ books and records of their financial activities.  Reconciliation is an age-old critical control for 
     ledger integrity.  It relies on the assumption that it is more difficult to commit errors or malfeasance when multiple people are 
     looking at the same thing, and currently involves onerous, redundant, manual processes.  Blockchain technology could provide an 
     automated and more efficient way to perform ledger reconciliation, because it generates efficient, automated, electronic consensus 
     that the distributed ledger is accurate.  Use of blockchain technology in the wholesale space is currently limited to a small 
     quantity of products in OTC cash and derivative trading (e.g., itBit); exchange trading, margining and financing (tØ.com); 
     alternative models for correspondent banking and foreign exchange transaction execution (Ripple).  One report estimates that the 
     technology could reduce wholesale finance infrastructure costs by $15-20 billion per year by 2022. 
 

Cost element 1: Cost of Storage 

<insert info> 

    - Currently no constructs for archive of old information – so once committed always in the chain 
    - Comparison in the cost of data storage (purchase price per GB) provides the viability for blockchain tech
    - Point out drop in cost of data storage (purchase price of $437,500 per GB in 1980 to just under $0.03 per GB in 2014), 
      which provides the viability for blockchain technologies. That was a great article you posted from medium.
    - Comparison cost of blockchain relative to centralized databases.
    - Blockchain can lower costs when compared with the licensing and support fees charged by the big CSPs like oracle.
    - Hosting, licensing, and implementation costs. 
    - Hiring or outsourcing for talent to maintain the system.
    - Energy costs may rise tremendously as the transaction volume increases.
    - Bandwidth costs: The cost of network resources required to receive and transmit transactions, blocks, and metadata.
    - The cost of storing all currently spendable transactions, which is necessary for miners and full nodes to perform transaction 
      validation, and of storing the blockchain's (much larger) historical data, which is necessary to bootstrap new nodes that join 
      the network.
    - Perhaps we can do our own deep dive into the cost of storing data in a blockchain database.


Cost element 2: Cost of computing power for consensus algorithms/Scalability of Consensus 

<insert info> 

    - Transaction costs for scalability: for example, today's representative bitcoin blockchain takes 10 mins or longer to confirm 
      transactions, achieves 7 transactions/sec. By comparison, Visa confirms a transaction within seconds, and processes 2000 
      transactions/sec on average, with a peak rate of 56,000 transactions/sec. This shows large gap exists between where blockchain 
      is today, and the scalability of a mainstream payment processor. Therefore, the key questions are, can decentralized blockchains 
      be scaled up to match the performance of a mainstream payment processor? What does it take to get there?
    - By enabling users to directly and securely transfer ownership and eliminate—or at least greatly reduce—the intermediation 
      involved in traditional financial transactions, blockchain technology could potentially lower transaction costs; provide 
      near-real time settlement; and reduce counterparty risk, thereby increasing efficiency in a broad range of financial industries.

Cost element 3: Cost of specialized resources/labor 

<insert info> 

Cost element4: Cost of Governance/Regulatory/Compliance  

<insert info> 
Combiz: can do a whole sub-section on this, issues remain if control over the platform and its underlying data are held by a broader 
set of stakeholders. 
  - Who funds and owns the platform as well as the data? 
  - Who ensures that it continues to meet evolving requirements?
  - Who is responsible for upgrades and maintenance? 
  - Costs associated with the parties responsible for writing to the blockchain and validating transactions. 
  - Blockchain-based systems will likely become subject to increased regulation and supervision if they achieve scale (or if 
    traditional networks or fiat currencies adopt blockchain technology), which likely will add costs for industry and higher fees 
    for users.  Even assuming widespread adoption, it is unclear whether claimed cost advantages would remain if blockchain-based 
    activities are subject to regulatory requirements, similar to those that apply to other products and services. 
  - Identity stored on the blockchain can be made available at every step of a transaction chain, which could eliminate the need for 
    each financial institution involved in a transaction to conduct its own customer identification/verification, potentially reducing 
    transaction and AML/CFT regulatory compliance costs.  Blockchain technology may also allow an individual’s verified digital identity 
    to travel with the person when establishing customer relationships at another financial institution regulated under the Bank Secrecy 
    Act, potentially reducing onboarding costs.

Cost element 5: Non-Financial Benefits 

<insert info> 



<insert info> 

Summary 

<insert info> 
